{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8560\viewh12240\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Explore Weather Trends\

\fs24 \

\f1\b Get cities in my country\

\f0\b0 SELECT *\
FROM city_list\
WHERE country = 'Sweden'\
\
Result: Only one \
Stockholm\
\

\f1\b Get all global data for download to csv\

\f0\b0 SELECT *\
FROM global_data\
\

\f1\b Get data for Stockholm\

\f0\b0 SELECT *\
FROM city_data\
WHERE city = 'Stockholm'\
\

\f2\i\b Also get data for options extra city, Sydney\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 SELECT *\
FROM city_data\
WHERE city = 'Sydney\'92\
\

\f1\b Preread FAQ\

\f0\b0 https://knowledge.udacity.com/questions/86515\
Should we remove rows with no value\
\

\f1\b Import CSV 
\f0\b0 for global average and Stockholm average into Google Spreadsheet. Added a new sheet where I combined Global and Stockholm. \
Added column to calculate moving average per decennium for Global and one for Stockholm. =AVERAGE(B9:B18) \
I chose to ignore the first years up to 1750 for Stockholm because of many empty year and 1750 showing -2 which is very different to the other numbers. Indicates something is wrong.\
 \
Selected Year, Global_ma, Stockholm_ma and then hit the insert chart\
Chose line chart and needed to adjust so that the chart showed the right axis\
\
\

\f1\b Observations
\f0\b0 \
- Something might be wrong with the first numbers, excluding them will not damage the trend. Also as when global don\'92t have numbers so early it is safe to exclude them. -2 is very different and would be interesting to se colaut global but it is not so no use looking at it\
- Stockholm is a bit colder than rest of the world as expected. It fluctuates a bit more during 1900. Difficult to say why. Maybe need to look at other data to understand why. Perhaps how monsune where these years, our industrial establishments, or tjernobyl maybe also affected temperature\
- recent 20 years Stockholm have closed the gap to rest of the world. Might be a result of heavily growth in people - avgaser,\
- comparing centuries it does not show the fluctuations like in dec\
-1820 was the coldest decennium \
Three distinct heat peaks 1780, 1800, 1820 \
\

\f1\b Extras\

\f0\b0 Calculated correlation coefficient by using the formula CORREL in Google Sheets. \
Moving average columns giving a result of 0.82 (starting 1759)\
Avg temperature columns giving a result of 0.5 (starting 1750)\
This is in order as when the moving average smooth out the trends a bit to easier read trends. So the correlation is stronger this way. \
If we know the correlation and in what direction - colder or hotter, than we can use it to calculate\
I choose to look at Sydney as well, which are much more even in temperatures than Stockholm. Significantly higher temperature cross over. \
Sydney is following along global measurements more than Stockholm\
\
}